# Filesystem Structure and Naming Conventions

This document describes the filesystem layout and naming conventions used in the project. Hopefully, this ensures that the storage and organization of data, scripts, outputs, and metadata are clear and reproducible.  

---

# Project Structure

The project's primary directories include data, scripts, results, and docs folders. There are some additional standalone files.

### Data

The data folder holds the lifecycle and transformation of the raw data used in this project. It holds raw data, and then interim, and finally processed, meaning the clean data ready for analysis.

The raw data folder has seperate income and education sections. These folders both hold the raw csv file and the sh256 file so that the integrity of the data can be verified. 

Processed data holds the final education and income db file, which holds seperate tables of clean data. These tables include income and education as seperate entities, and as a joined table. 

### Scripts

The scripts folder holds all of the python scripts used to acquire and handle the data. It has folders for acquire, load, clean, integrate, and analyze. All of those folders are steps in the data curation process. 

### Results

The results folder holds all of the products that are generated by the analysis of the data. 

### Docs

This folder holds all of the documentation of the project. These include instructions to reproduce the project, how the data was used, how the project was structured, etc. This very document is found within the docs folder, displaying how part of the project is structued.

### Other
- requirements.txt: all the required libraries that need to be downloaded in order for the scripts to function properly
- run_all.py: this script is responsible for running the entire project workflow, essentially formatting every step of the data lifeccle process into one easy, reproduceable process
- Snakefile: this file holds the instructions for snakemake to create an automated workflow of the project

---

# Naming Conventions

The following standards were applied project-wide:

- Lowercase file and directory names  
- Words separated by underscores  
- No spaces in filenames  
- Descriptive, action-oriented script names  
- Data stored in stage-specific directories  
- .sha25 files placed alongside raw data  
- All cleaned and integrated data stored in a single SQLite database  